---
title: "Red Bull Untapped International Qualifier II"
description: |
  I played almost no standard last week, and I had no time to read or watch any
  material about it either, so I was as unprepared as one can be. Standard did
  not conceptually change much since the last round of bans. It is Growth Spiral
  everywhere, with Temur Reclamation leading the way and Bant Ramp not that far
  behind. Still, small things change. People are bored by the best decks and like
  to try other options, and these options seem to shift and change quite a lot
  since M21. Initially, sacrifice decks (Jund and Rakdos) were popular T2
  choices, followed by a wave of mono-colored aggro decks (first green, followed
  by black and recently white).
date: 2020-07-13T19:25:37+02:00
image: yorvo.jpg
draft: false
categories:
  - "tournaments"
---

I played almost no standard last week, and I had no time to read or watch any
material about it either, so I was as unprepared as one can be. Standard did
not conceptually change much since the last round of bans. It is Growth Spiral
everywhere, with Temur Reclamation leading the way and Bant Ramp not that far
behind. Still, small things change. People are bored by the best decks and like
to try other options, and these options seem to shift and change quite a lot
since M21. Initially, sacrifice decks (Jund and Rakdos) were popular T2
choices, followed by a wave of mono-colored aggro decks (first green, followed
by black and recently white).

# Deck

I am not a great fan of the Growth Spiral decks, so I looked into the Channel
Fireball deck vault and figured out Mono-Green Aggro sounds fun. Casting big
beasts and turning them sideways should not be that hard. I managed to play
only one game with it before the tournament, though.

```
Deck
4 Barkhide Troll
2 Gemrazer
4 Lovestruck Beast
4 Pelt Collector
4 Questing Beast
2 Ram Through
1 Ranger's Guile
4 Scavenging Ooze
4 Stonecoil Serpent
2 The Great Henge
3 Vivien, Arkbow Ranger
2 Yorvo, Lord of Garenbrig

4 Castle Garenbrig
19 Forest
1 Mobilized District

Sideboard
2 Gemrazer
2 Heroic Intervention
4 Oakhame Adversary
2 Ram Through
4 Shifting Ceratops
1 The Great Henge
```

# Early 0-3

G1 was a surprising Temur Clover (adventures) played by a streamer [Matías
Arvigo](https://twitter.com/afterttv?lang=en). I lost the first game because of
a stupid mistake where I did not take time to properly evaluate plays when I
had lethal. I had a Vivien and three creatures. The opponent had three life and
an empty board. I knew he wished Unsummon and Redcap Melee from the sideboard,
and he had precisely two mana open to cast them. I managed to not win that game
by putting Vivien's +1/+1 counters on incorrect creatures. I kept a risky,
greedy hand in the second game and was punished by it. Opponent placed a Clover
in T2, and I did not have the third land to cast that Gemrazer.

G2 was a Bant Ramp piloted by [Tomonori
Hirami](https://pros.hareruyamtg.com/player/tomonori-hirami/?lang=en), a
Hareruya Hope. I was quite close in both games, but Nissa and Uro always
clogged the board enough, and I could not get the lethal through. I felt
utterly destroyed by ECD, Teferi, and Aether Gust. I did quite a lot of damage,
but it was always offset by Uro and Krasis. I guess better decks are just
better?

I played a mirror in G3. Opponent curved Elf → Ooze → Lovestruck Giant → Great
Henge in the first game, hard to beat that. I got mana screwed in the second
game, never got the fourth land.

# Is keeping playing worth it?

Apparently, many people only play to get to day two and drop after a second or
third loss. I still feel I gain experience playing (semi-)competitive games in
later rounds, so I continued. I was not taking notes, though! One thing to
observe during a long tournament is fatigue. I really noticed how less
motivated, less alert, and overall more tired I am during the day. I guess that
is also a reason why to keep playing, even if you end up playing weird decks
and not that challenging opponents.

# Going 3-5

Like I mentioned, I was not taking notes in the rest of the tournament. I beat
Red Aggro in the G4, and it felt very straightforward. Green dudes are just
bigger and on the board soon enough to stop the aggressive red creatures. You
just need to respect the Embercleave. I lost the next two games against an
Abzan Aggro (I do not remember the details of that deck, unfortunately) and
Bant Ramp. Then, I won the last two games, both against Azorius Control.

# Summary

The experience playing was nice. The online system for running the game is
pretty polished, although it apparently has some backend issues. The tournament
felt more competitive than any other Magic tournament I have ever played.
Especially the first rounds were ruthless without any slack: optimal decks,
right decisions, apparently experienced players. The opponent quality dropped
noticeably in the later rounds. After this tournament, I am pretty sure I need
to prepare properly next time: I cannot merely show up and play, and expect any
good results.
